All right guys so in the last video we finished the home article section here.
Now we're going to start to work on the footer which is also going to be a great container.
So let's go below the section here and we'll just say footer and let's give it a footer tag with an
I.D. of main dash footer.
All right.
And then inside here we're gonna have the container class to move everything to the middle.
I'm also going to add a class of foot container here which will be the actual grid container.
And inside here we're gonna have basically have five divs if we look at the project here we're gonna
set it to repeat for one at far so it has one two three four.
And then the next one gets knocked on to the next line.
Now this last one here we want to span across all the way.
Okay.
So we're gonna add a grid span as well so let's add our first div which is going to have that light
logo so we're gonna say image.
The source is going to be in the image folder and it's going to be this logo liked PMG.
OK we'll just say news news grid.
And then underneath that I'm going to put a paragraph excuse me and we'll say let's do Lorem 30 let's
do 20 and I think that's what I want.
So that's the first div.
And the next one is going to be the email newsletter so let's do an h three and say e-mail news newsletter
and then we're gonna do a paragraph let's say Lorem will do alarm 8 and under the paragraph we're gonna
have a little form.
We want to get rid of the action
inside here we're gonna have an input.
Let's give it a type of email since this is gonna be an email field we don't need name and I.D. We will
put a place holder.
And we'll say enter we'll say enter email and then we want to submit button.
So I'm going to do an input with the type of submit and for the value will say subscribe and let's also
give this a class of B T N and I want to do B T N and primary All right.
So the next thing we want is the links here so these site links which aren't going to go anywhere but
it's just for just for the aesthetics of the site.
So let's say div and we're gonna have an H 3 and just say site links and then a.
Well now this.
Well I'm going to style I'm going to give a class of list and I want it to be basically like a utility
class so that we can use this in other places as well.
And as far as the list items go we're gonna have links to just nowhere.
This first one is gonna be help and support.
Copy this down a couple of times four times and let's do privacy policy.
It's just some common pages you see on Web sites.
We'll do about us.
And this one here.
Let's do contact.
OK.
Now the next grid item is gonna be a dev as well.
And this is gonna be that the join our club.
So we're gonna do an H TO AN H two and I'll say join our club and then let's put a paragraph and we'll
do Lorem 10 and then under that will have an A tag with the class of B10 and class of B T N secondary
and let's just say in here we'll say Join Now.
Okay.
And then the final div is just gonna be a paragraph and in that paragraph will say copyright.
Let's do Ampersand copy semicolon which will give us a little copyright symbol.
Twenty nineteen.
All rights reserved.
All right.
So that's all of our each team Al.
Let's check it out.
So it's gonna look very very ugly.
So we'll head over to our CSX and we have some utility classes to create but we're going to just start
on the footer itself first.
So it's a footer.
We have an I.D..
We have an idea of main dash footer.
Now the footer I'm going to give the dark color as it's background so far let's do dash dash.
Dark color and let's make the actual color of the text white.
OK so save that.
Now the image is obviously way too big so let's say main dash image
not main image mean footer and then target the image.
And we want to set the width too.
Let's do one hundred and fifty pixels.
All right.
And I want all the links to be white.
So let's say main footer all the tags we want the color to be white.
And now we're going to work on the grid and aligning these we want them to go in obviously we want to
create some columns.
So we're going to say main footer and we're gonna grab onto the footer dash container and we're gonna
say display grid.
And then as far as the grid template columns we're gonna do repeat and let's repeat four times one fraction.
And let's add a grid gap.
Spread them apart a little bit so we'll say one point five REM and save.
And now you can see that they're all aligned.
Now we have some some other designed to do styling to do like this.
This form here also the list.
But this last one here this this copy right.
I want this to span all the way across.
So I'm going to target that by saying main footer and let's let's say we want from the footer container
a direct element to that is the last child.
So even if it wasn't a div it doesn't matter what what kind of element we're going to target it and
then we're gonna set the background to do four four four.
And if we save that you can see it's stuck in here so we want to span it all the way across.
And you guys remember how to do that.
We're gonna do grid dash column
and we want to start at the first column and then we want to span across four.
We have four total.
So we'll save that.
And now it spans all the way across.
Let's just add a little bit of padding here we'll see.
Point five Ram.
Let's also text aligned to the center
and I want to make the font size just a little smaller so we're gonna do zero point seven five REM and
save.
All right.
So let's see the footer itself.
Actually you know what.
Let's add a padding class to the footer.
So up here we'll say.
Class.
Remember we have the P Y which is top and bottom.
We'll do PE y to and save.
So now this right here the form the little email form I want to style that.
So let's target main footer and let's do photo container.
And we're gonna grab the input and I'm gonna say I want the input that has the type that is equal to
e-mail OK and I'm going to set the width to 90 percent and let's set padding say zero point five room
and let's do a margin bottom of point five.
All right so we'll save that.
So that looks pretty good.
Now for this for this button here I just want to set that with to 90 percent as well.
So remember that main footer
that's an input and we want to say where that type is equal to submit and then I just want to set the
width to 90 percent which didn't mark because we needed a semicolon.
OK.
So that looks pretty good.
One thing that I forgot to do is for the paragraphs I want all paragraphs to have a little bit of margin.
You see how this is so close right here and right here so I'm just gonna add.
Let's go up top here to like our core styles and let's put in paragraph and we'll say for the margin
top and bottom we want to do point 5 room.
So it just adds a little bit of space.
All right.
So I think that looks pretty good.
Let's handle the list now like I said I want to be able to use the List class and other places as well
so we're going to you add this as a utility class.
So let's go see we'll go right under the padding here and let's say Don list.
Actually we don't need to style the list itself.
The usual let's just do the ally.
And I just want to add padding I'll say point five room top and bottom.
And let's add a border bottom of five five five dotted one pixel and then I want to set the width to
90 percent and save.
OK so that looks pretty good.
All right.
Oh you know what.
Let's you and me.
Let's do a hover state.
Let's make the hover the primary colors so we'll see a list.
Let's do we want to do dot list ally a
hover and let's say we want the color to be var primary color.
And now.
Okay.
That's not working.
Not sure why that's not working.
We've list ally a hover.
Let's add an important flag here.
See if that works.
All right.
There we go.
OK.
So that's our list styling.
And I think that's it.
I think that's it for the footer.
So in the next video we're going to start to work on the inner pages.
We have an about page.
We also have an article page so we'll create those and then we'll start to work on the the mobile version
for the Web site.